Input:
1. User presses a key on the keyboard. This generates an interrupt at the
hardware level which is handled by the Linux kernel. The exact process depends
on the type of keyboard (USB, PS/2, etc.). Alternatively, a packet is received
by the kernel which is passed to the SSH daemon handling the session. The
keystroke is then handled by the TTY/PTY driver.

2. The keystroke is made available to the user application via the tty that
the terminal is connected to. This TTY/PTY acts as a file with a file
descriptor (0 for stdin).

3. When the application was started, a static initializer class creates cin,
which uses a filebuf connected to stdin. When this filebuf underflows because
of an operator>> or other read operation, it waits for stdin to provide data.
The keystroke is read via the filebuf and passed back to cin (an istream).

4. When cin is receiving a multi-character value, it may wait for more
characters. For a single character, it will return, passing the value back to
the application.

Output:
1. A character or string of characters is passed to cout, cerr or clog via an
operator<< or similar write operation. These streams are connected to stdout
and stderr through the same static initializer as cin.

2. The ostream passes the character(s) to the filebuf.

3. When the filebuf overflows, or is synced (or, in the case of cerr,
immediately) the character is written to the stdout or stderr device using the
file descriptors 1 or 2.

4. The stderr and stdout file descriptors are both attached to a TTY/PTY
device.  These characters are passed via the TTY/PTY device to the console via
a display device (terminal emulator) driver or to a daemon such as SSH for
transmission over the network back to the receiving terminal.

In cases where characters don't go in and out from a console directly, there
is a PTY (pseudo terminal) involved. This virtual device has two sides: a
master and a slave. A program such as xterm or sshd is attached to the master
and the slave is opened by the programs the user runs (bash, a C++ exercise,
etc.)

See "man pty" for details.
